Docs: iterating over state chapter (#348)
0xPolygonMiden/miden-base: docs/src/architecture/state.md

# State
The state of the Miden rollup describes the current condition of all accounts and note states. It describes what is currently the case. With its state model, using concurrent offchain state, Polygon Miden aims to realise private transactions, and execution and state bloat minimization.

> Privacy is realised from a UTXO-like state model consisting of notes and nullifiers combined with offchain execution using zero-knowledge proofs. Execution bloat happens when transactions get re-executed by all participants of the network. State bloat describes the ever growing state stored in blockchain nodes. Polygon Miden addresses these challenges via its state model that enables concurrent offchain execution and offchain storage. Simply put, in Miden users can store their own data locally which reduces the burden on the network - integrity is ensured using zero-knowledge.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I'd go into execution bloat part here and would probably replace the table below with a bullet-point list of main goals of our state design (i think we can probably list 4 - 5 goals there).

Author: changed it

As described in [Accounts](http://localhost:3000/architecture/accounts.html#account-storage-modes), there are three types of accounts:
* **Public accounts** where all account data is stored onchain.
* **Private accounts** where only the hashes of accounts are stored onchain.

Private accounts significantly reduce the storage overhead for nodes. A private account contributes only $40$ bytes to the global state ($8$ bytes account ID + $32$ bytes account hash). Or, said another way, 1 billion private accounts takes up only $40$ GB of state.

> Losing the state of a private account would mean loss of funds (as the user won't be able to execute transactions) in a similar manner as a loss of a private key would. This problem can be easily mitigated by storing encrypted account state in a cloud or backing it up somewhere else. Unlike storing private keys in the cloud, this does not compromise privacy or security of an account.

> In the future we also want to enable **Encrypted accounts** where the account data is stored onchain but in encrypted text. This is especially interesting for shared accounts like advanced multi-sig wallets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the future we also want to enable **Encrypted accounts** where the account data is stored onchain but in an encrypted format. This is especially interesting for shared accounts like advanced multi-sig wallets.
```

To prove that a note has not been consumed previously, the operator needs to provide a Merkle path to its node, and then show that the value in that node is `0`. In our case nullifiers are $32$ bytes each, and thus, the height of the Sparse Merkle tree need to be $256$.

To be able to add new nullifiers to the database, operators needs to maintain the entire nullifier set. Otherwise, they would not be able to compute the new root of the tree.

*Note: Nullifiers as constructed in Miden break linkability of privately stored notes and the information about the note's consumption. To know the [note's nullifier](https://0xpolygonmiden.github.io/miden-base/architecture/notes.html#note-nullifier) one must know the note's data.

> In the future, when there a lots of TPS, there will be one tree per epoch (~3 months), and Miden nodes always store trees for at least two epochs. However, the roots of the old trees are still stored. If a user wants to consume a note that is more than $6$ month old, there must be a merkle path provided to the Miden Node for verification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the future, when the network experiences a large number of transactions per second (TPS), there will be one tree per epoch (~3 months), and Miden nodes always store trees for at least two epochs. However, the roots of the old trees are still stored. If a user wants to consume a note that is more than $6$ month old, there must be a merkle path provided to the Miden Node for verification.
```
